docs: add NVIDIA GPU Operator guide (#10018)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/ai-workloads/ai-workloads.md

---
sidebar_label: "AI Workloads"
title: "AI Workloads"
description: "Guides for running AI workloads on Palette-managed infrastructure."
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["ai workloads", "gpu", "nvidia", "edge", "machine learning"]
---

> Palette supports AI workloads across data center and edge environments. To enable GPU workloads, Palette provides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Palette supports AI workloads across data center and Edge environments. To enable GPU workloads, Palette provides
```

curated packs that handle GPU driver installation, node feature detection, and runtime integration. This means your
nodes are ready to schedule GPU workloads without manual setup.

These guides cover how to provision and configure the infrastructure needed to run AI workloads on your Palette-managed
clusters and devices.

For a higher level AI platform experience built on top of that infrastructure, refer to

> [PaletteAI](https://docs.palette-ai.com/) for deploying and operating AI platforms on GPU-enabled clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These guides cover how to provision and configure the infrastructure needed to run AI workloads on your Palette-managed clusters and devices. For an elevated AI platform experience, where platform engineers deploy and manage GPU-enabled clusters and application engineers independently deploy AI/ML applications and models on those clusters, refer to our [PaletteAI](https://docs.palette-ai.com/) documentation.
```

Trying to shine a bit more clarity on why someone would use PaletteAI vs. Palette :)

## Resources

- [Enable AI Workloads with the NVIDIA GPU Operator Pack](./nvidia-gpu-operator.md): Add the NVIDIA GPU Operator pack to
  a Palette cluster profile to provision GPU nodes for AI workloads.

> - [PaletteAI](https://docs.palette-ai.com/): Deploy and manage AI platforms on GPU-enabled Palette infrastructure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Enable AI Workloads with the NVIDIA GPU Operator Pack](./nvidia-gpu-operator.md) - Add the <VersionedLink text="NVIDIA GPU Operator" url="integrations/packs/?pack=nvidia-gpu-operator-ai" /> pack to
  a Palette cluster profile to provision GPU nodes for AI workloads.
- [PaletteAI](https://docs.palette-ai.com/) - Provision and manage GPU-optimized infrastructure and clusters, allowing application teams to deploy curated AI/ML applications and models as needed.
```

---
sidebar_label: "AI Workloads"
title: "AI Workloads"
description: "Guides for running AI workloads on Palette-managed infrastructure."
hide_table_of_contents: false
tags: ["ai workloads", "gpu", "nvidia", "edge", "machine learning"]
---

Palette supports AI workloads across data center and Edge environments. To enable GPU workloads, Palette provides
curated packs that handle GPU driver installation, node feature detection, and runtime integration. This means your
nodes are ready to schedule GPU workloads without manual setup.

These guides cover how to provision and configure the infrastructure needed to run AI workloads on your Palette-managed
clusters and devices. For an elevated AI platform experience, where platform engineers deploy and manage GPU-enabled
clusters and application engineers independently deploy AI/ML applications and models on those clusters, refer to our
[PaletteAI](https://docs.palette-ai.com/) documentation.

## Resources

> 
> - [Enable AI Workloads with the NVIDIA GPU Operator Pack](./nvidia-gpu-operator.md) - Add the
>   <VersionedLink text="NVIDIA GPU Operator" url="integrations/packs/?pack=nvidia-gpu-operator-ai" /> pack to a Palette
>   cluster profile to provision GPU nodes for AI workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

- [Enable AI Workloads with the NVIDIA GPU Operator Pack](./nvidia-gpu-operator.md) - Add the
  <VersionedLink text="NVIDIA GPU Operator" url="integrations/packs/?pack=nvidia-gpu-operator-ai" /> pack to a Palette
  cluster profile to provision GPU nodes for AI workloads.

<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

```

Needed around VersionedLinks to make sure Prettier doesn't break the formatting (as seen in some later examples/screenshots)
